README.md, before:


## Deploying a Java Application to AWS EKS using GitHub Actions and IAC with Terraform

### Follow the instructions below to setup AWS CLI and Terraform.

### Install AWS CLI
- The first step is to install the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). This tool allows us to configure Terraform to interact with AWS services. We'll use the `#aws configure` command in the next steps to establish this connection.

Follow the below link to Install AWS CLI:
````
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html
```` 

### Install Terraform:

Install Terraform using the below link.

````
https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli 
````

### Configure the AWS Security credentials

In your terminal, run the **aws configure** command to provide your AWS security credentials. These credentials will allow Terraform to interact with AWS resources. ***Remember to keep these credentials secure.***


***********


### Application Used:
- Basic java web application created.

### Terraform Infrastructure Setup:

- Follow the instructions  to provision the [AWS EKS infrastructure](infra_as_code/2.aws_eks_ias/README.md) page

 - Automate building and deploying your Docker image to an EKS cluster using a GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline. This guide walks you through creating workflows that handle building, testing, and deploying the image automatically.

### GitHub Actions for Continuous Integration and Delivery

#### Step 1: Configure GitHub Secrets
To ensure secure deployment, we'll need some secrets stored in your GitHub repository. Navigate to your repository settings and add the following secrets:
  
      - Settings 
        - Security 
          - Secrets and variables -> Actions 
  

  **Secrets:**

            - AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID     - AWS Access key   - can be generated from AWS Accounts page              
            - AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY - AWS Secret Access key - can be generated from AWS Accounts page              
            - AWS_REGION            - AWS Region 
            - DOCKERHUB_TOKEN       - Docker Hub Token - can be generated from Dockerhub account
            - DOCKERHUB_USERNAME    - Docker Hub User Name            
            - EKS_CLUSTER_NAME      - EKS Cluster name - can be obtained from step 2 output variables
            - SNYK_TOKEN            - Snyk is used to scan the security vulnerabilities. Token can be obtained from snyk.io
            - SONAR_HOST_URL        - SonarQube is used for continuous inspection of code quality - URL: https://sonarcloud.io
            - SONAR_PROJECT_KEY     - Obtain from sonar account once project setup done
            - SONAR_TOKEN           - Obtain from sonar account 


#### Step 2 - Automated Pipeline Stages:

1. **Quality & Security Checks**
    * **Unit Testing:** Verify individual code units function correctly. *Note: Covered only very basic test for POC*
    * **Code Coverage:** Measure how much code is tested by unit tests. 
    * **Dependency Scanning:** Identify and address potential vulnerabilities in external dependencies.
    * **Security Scanning:** Analyze the code for security weaknesses.  

2. **Build and Package** (**This stage follows successful completion of Stage 1**)
    * Build the application.
    * Generate a JAR file as the output.
    * Publish Build Artifacts to GitHub Actions Artifacts 

3. **Containerize** (**This stage follows successful completion of Stage 2**)
    * Build a Docker image from the JAR file.
    * Run tests on the image to ensure functionality.
    * Push the image to a container registry for accessibility only if the image test is successful.

4. **Deployment** (**Conditional based on branch**)
    * **Development:**
    * **(Conditional):** This step only executes if the branch is `feature/development`.
        * Configure AWS credentials for deployment access.
        * Create or update a kubeconfig file for the development cluster defined in GitHub Actions secrets.
        * Deploy the manifest files to the development environment.
    * **Production:**
    * **(Conditional):** This step only executes if the branch is `main/master`.
        * Configure AWS credentials for deployment access.
        * Create or update a kubeconfig file for the production cluster defined in GitHub Actions secrets.
        * Deploy the manifest files to the production environment (assuming `main/master` is production).

***Execution:***
***The pipeline automatically triggers on code changes to the main/master or development/feature branches, ensuring continuous integration and deployment or manually trigger the workflow following below steps.***

        Goto 
           mywebapp-java repository 
             Actions tab 
                Select Java WebApp CI/CD pipeline (left side menu) 
                click on Runworkflow 


> **Note:**
> After the pipeline completes, the generated reports (Unit Testing, Sonarqube, Dependency Check, and Security Scanning ) are accessible from their respective sites or the GitHub Actions artifacts section. 


#### Technology Stack
- AWS
- Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
- GitHub Actions
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Terraform
- Snyk - Scan the security vulnerabilities
- SonarCloud - SonarQube is used for continuous inspection of code quality
- OWASP Dependency-Check tool - a Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tool that attempts to detect publicly disclosed vulnerabilities contained within a project’s dependencies. 

### Follow the below instructions to see the application URL.
- Create or update a kubeconfig file for your cluster. Replace region-code with the AWS Region that your cluster is in and replace my-cluster with the name of your cluster.
#### Step 1:
````
 aws eks update-kubeconfig --region region-code --name my-cluster
````
##### Step 2:
````
Kubectl get ingress

Ingress is the service name

````
Use External IP to access the application.



-

Commit message:

added folder/files structure instructions and corrected app url instructions
added folder/files structure instructions  
corrected app url instructions

README.md, after:


## Deploying a Java Application to AWS EKS using GitHub Actions and IAC with Terraform

### Follow the instructions below to setup AWS CLI and Terraform.

### Install AWS CLI
- The first step is to install the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). This tool allows us to configure Terraform to interact with AWS services. We'll use the `#aws configure` command in the next steps to establish this connection.

Follow the below link to Install AWS CLI:
````
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html
```` 

### Install Terraform:

Install Terraform using the below link.

````
https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli 
````

### Configure the AWS Security credentials

In your terminal, run the **aws configure** command to provide your AWS security credentials. These credentials will allow Terraform to interact with AWS resources. ***Remember to keep these credentials secure.***


***********


### Application Used:
- Basic java web application created.

### Terraform Infrastructure Setup:

- Follow the instructions  to provision the [AWS EKS infrastructure](infra_as_code/2.aws_eks_ias/README.md) page

 - Automate building and deploying your Docker image to an EKS cluster using a GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline. This guide walks you through creating workflows that handle building, testing, and deploying the image automatically.

### GitHub Actions for Continuous Integration and Delivery

#### Step 1: Configure GitHub Secrets
To ensure secure deployment, we'll need some secrets stored in your GitHub repository. Navigate to your repository settings and add the following secrets:
  
      - Settings 
        - Security 
          - Secrets and variables -> Actions 
  

  **Secrets:**

            - AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID     - AWS Access key   - can be generated from AWS Accounts page              
            - AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY - AWS Secret Access key - can be generated from AWS Accounts page              
            - AWS_REGION            - AWS Region 
            - DOCKERHUB_TOKEN       - Docker Hub Token - can be generated from Dockerhub account
            - DOCKERHUB_USERNAME    - Docker Hub User Name            
            - EKS_CLUSTER_NAME      - EKS Cluster name - can be obtained from step 2 output variables
            - SNYK_TOKEN            - Snyk is used to scan the security vulnerabilities. Token can be obtained from snyk.io
            - SONAR_HOST_URL        - SonarQube is used for continuous inspection of code quality - URL: https://sonarcloud.io
            - SONAR_PROJECT_KEY     - Obtain from sonar account once project setup done
            - SONAR_TOKEN           - Obtain from sonar account 


#### Step 2 - Automated Pipeline Stages:

1. **Quality & Security Checks**
    * **Unit Testing:** Verify individual code units function correctly. *Note: Covered only very basic test for POC*
    * **Code Coverage:** Measure how much code is tested by unit tests. 
    * **Dependency Scanning:** Identify and address potential vulnerabilities in external dependencies.
    * **Security Scanning:** Analyze the code for security weaknesses.  

2. **Build and Package** (**This stage follows successful completion of Stage 1**)
    * Build the application.
    * Generate a JAR file as the output.
    * Publish Build Artifacts to GitHub Actions Artifacts 

3. **Containerize** (**This stage follows successful completion of Stage 2**)
    * Build a Docker image from the JAR file.
    * Run tests on the image to ensure functionality.
    * Push the image to a container registry for accessibility only if the image test is successful.

4. **Deployment** (**Conditional based on branch**)
    * **Development:**
    * **(Conditional):** This step only executes if the branch is `feature/development`.
        * Configure AWS credentials for deployment access.
        * Create or update a kubeconfig file for the development cluster defined in GitHub Actions secrets.
        * Deploy the manifest files to the development environment.
    * **Production:**
    * **(Conditional):** This step only executes if the branch is `main/master`.
        * Configure AWS credentials for deployment access.
        * Create or update a kubeconfig file for the production cluster defined in GitHub Actions secrets.
        * Deploy the manifest files to the production environment (assuming `main/master` is production).

***Execution:***
***The pipeline automatically triggers on code changes to the main/master or development/feature branches, ensuring continuous integration and deployment or manually trigger the workflow following below steps.***

        Goto 
           mywebapp-java repository 
             Actions tab 
                Select Java WebApp CI/CD pipeline (left side menu) 
                click on Runworkflow 


> **Note:**
> After the pipeline completes, the generated reports (Unit Testing, Sonarqube, Dependency Check, and Security Scanning ) are accessible from their respective sites or the GitHub Actions artifacts section. 


#### Technology Stack
- AWS
- Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
- GitHub Actions
- Docker
- Kubernetes
- Terraform
- Snyk - Scan the security vulnerabilities
- SonarCloud - SonarQube is used for continuous inspection of code quality
- OWASP Dependency-Check tool - a Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tool that attempts to detect publicly disclosed vulnerabilities contained within a project’s dependencies. 

#### Follow the below instructions to see the application URL.
Create or update a kubeconfig file for your cluster. 
Replace `region-code` with the AWS Region that your cluster is in and replace `my-cluster` with the name of your cluster and execute below commands in terminal.
  
- Step 1: 
````
 aws eks update-kubeconfig --region region-code --name my-cluster
````
- Step 2:
````
Kubectl get ingress
````
Use load balancer's DNS name from the `ADDRESS` field to access the application from above command output.



#### GitHub Repository Folder/Files Structure Overview
* **infra_as_code:**       - This directory contains terraform files to provision EKS cluster and Remote backend for state store. 
  * **1.aws_ias_rb_s3_db** - This directory contains terraform files to create Remote Backend for state store.
  * **2.aws_eks_ias**      - This directory contains terraform files to provision EKS cluster.
* **manifestfiles**        - This directory contains kubernetes manifestfiles for the development deployment.
* **src**                  - The `src` directory contains the java source code of the project. It is the main directory where the development happens.
* **Dockerfile**                - Dockerfile to build the docker image.
* **Implementation Report.PDF** - A brief report explaining the approach, choices made during the implementation, and challenges faced.
